README.rst, before:

doko (どこ)
===========

A simple command-line utility (and Python module) to determine your current location.

Doko is a clone of Victor Jalencas's `whereami <https://github.com/victor/whereami>`_ utility, but unlike whereami it supports multiple strategies for finding your location.

Kudos to `Richo Healey <https://github.com/richo/>`_ for ideas and patches.

Installing
----------

To install just GeoIP support, run::

  $ pip install doko

However, on OS X 10.6 (Mountain Lion) or later, you can also use the much more accurate Core Location framework::

  $ pip install doko[corelocation]

Using Core Location
-------------------

Once you've installed the corelocation-enabled doko package, you'll need to enable Core Location in System Preferences, in the "Security" or "Security & Privacy" section. Furthermore, you must be using Wifi for it to work.

Hacking
-------

For hacking on OSX, you will likely want to install ``requires-corelocation.txt`` as well as ``requires.txt``.

Using on the command-line
-------------------------

Just run the ``doko`` command::

  $ doko
  35.674,139.701

This will give its best guess as to your location, depending on the strategies that are available. Use the ``--show`` option to open the location in Google Maps.

More fine-grained control over strategies used and the precision returned is available. See ``doko --help``.

Using as a module
-----------------

::

  > import doko
  > doko.location('geoip')  # on any platform
  Location(latitude=35.674, longitude=139.701, source='geoip')
  > doko.location('corelocation')  # on OS X, using Core Location
  Location(latitude=35.674851, longitude=139.701419, source='corelocation')
  > doko.Location.set_precision(2)
  > doko.location()
  Location(latitude=35.67, longitude=139.70, source='corelocation')


Changelog
---------

devel
~~~~~

- Add a means for storing and using known landmarks
- Add a cache strategy enabled by ``--cache`` option
- Include location source in Location tuple
- Add ``--show-strategy`` option on the command-line

0.2.0
~~~~~

- Make doko multiplatform, by making Core Location optional
- Honour timeouts for GeoIP lookups
- Provide control over precision to support privacy

0.1.0
~~~~~

- Fetch latitude and longitude using Core Location
- Provide backup method via GeoBytes page

Commit message:

Add a usage example for landmarks.

README.rst, after:

doko (どこ)
===========

A simple command-line utility (and Python module) to determine your current location.

Doko is a clone of Victor Jalencas's `whereami <https://github.com/victor/whereami>`_ utility, but unlike whereami it supports multiple strategies for finding your location.

Kudos to `Richo Healey <https://github.com/richo/>`_ for ideas and patches.

Installing
----------

To install just GeoIP support, run::

  $ pip install doko

However, on OS X 10.6 (Mountain Lion) or later, you can also use the much more accurate Core Location framework::

  $ pip install doko[corelocation]

Using Core Location
-------------------

Once you've installed the corelocation-enabled doko package, you'll need to enable Core Location in System Preferences, in the "Security" or "Security & Privacy" section. Furthermore, you must be using Wifi for it to work.

Hacking
-------

For hacking on OSX, you will likely want to install ``requires-corelocation.txt`` as well as ``requires.txt``.

Using on the command-line
-------------------------

Just run the ``doko`` command::

  $ doko
  35.674,139.701

This will give its best guess as to your location, depending on the strategies that are available. Use the ``--show`` option to open the location in Google Maps.

More fine-grained control over strategies used and the precision returned is available. See ``doko --help``.

Using as a module
-----------------

::

  > import doko
  > doko.location('geoip')  # on any platform
  Location(latitude=35.674, longitude=139.701, source='geoip')
  > doko.location('corelocation')  # on OS X, using Core Location
  Location(latitude=35.674851, longitude=139.701419, source='corelocation')
  > doko.Location.set_precision(2)
  > doko.location()
  Location(latitude=35.67, longitude=139.70, source='corelocation')

Landmarks
---------

You can use the `doko-landmark` command to store and recall known landmarks. This is useful if you're somewhere you go often without GPS::

  $ doko-landmark --add ueno-park 35.713965 139.77411
  $ doko-landmark --list
  ueno-park [35.713965, 139.77411]
  $ doko  # will give its best guess
  35.674851,139.70141
  $ DOKO_LANDMARK=ueno-park doko  # will use the landmark
  35.713965,139.77411

Changelog
---------

devel
~~~~~

- Add a means for storing and using known landmarks
- Add a cache strategy enabled by ``--cache`` option
- Include location source in Location tuple
- Add ``--show-strategy`` option on the command-line

0.2.0
~~~~~

- Make doko multiplatform, by making Core Location optional
- Honour timeouts for GeoIP lookups
- Provide control over precision to support privacy

0.1.0
~~~~~

- Fetch latitude and longitude using Core Location
- Provide backup method via GeoBytes page
